Fig. 1
CaM RNAi early in OSN development reduces dendritic Orco level and number of responsive sensilla. **a** CaM knockdown scheme using Pebbled-Gal4 and temperature sensitive Tubulin-Gal80. At 18 degrees Gal80 represses Gal4 and subsequently CaM RNAi. At 0 to 12 hours APF, when OSN development is known to begin, experimental flies were moved from 18 degrees to 29 degrees to inactivate Gal80 and initiate CaM RNAi. **b** and **c** Immunostaining of Peb-Gal4, UAS-Dcr2/+; Tub-Gal80/CaM RNAi; UAS-myR::GFP/+ flies' antennal sections with Orco antibody. Scale bars: 10um. **b** Control flies maintained the entire time at 18 degrees show normal localization of Orco in the OSN cell bodies and dendrites. **c** CaM RNAi flies show fairly normal, albeit slightly reduced, staining of Orco in the OSN cell bodies, but dramatically reduced staining in the dendrites. This occurs despite normal OSN dendritic morphology, confirmed by visualizing co-expressed myR::GFP. **e** SSR trace of a normal ab2 sensilla. **f** Trace of a non-responsive sensilla found in CaM RNAi flies. **g** Proportion of responsive large basiconic sensilla. While 100 percent of the sensilla on all control flies showed normal responsiveness, flies with Pebbled-Gal4-driven CaM RNAi at the onset of OSN development showed a severe reduction in the proportion of responsive sensilla. Mean+- SEM. N=5. Exact genotypes of flies used are as follows: Peb-Gal4, UAS-Dcr2/+ (X); Tub-Gal80/CaM RNAi (II) (18 degree controls and experimental), Peb-Gal4, UAS-Dcr2/+ (X); Tub-Gal80/+ (II), and CaM RNAi/+ (II).